M A M A T H A B S 
D A T A S C I E N T I S T    mamathabs246@gmail.com
                                                  +91 9380063012  
Yeshwantapura, Bangalore  
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY  
Data Scientist with 3+ years of experience solving end -to-end machine learning and data science problems  
for retail clients. Seeking a challenging  role that allows me to apply my expertise in Data science, Machine  
learning,  Artificial  intelligence,  Predictive  modeling,  Computer  vision,  Natural  language  processing.  
 
WORK  EXPERIENCE  
Glintsoft Infot ech PVT LTD.  
EDUCATION  
Bangalore  University  
Bachelor  of Computer  Applications  -2020 
SKILLS  
Python  
Numpy  
Pandas  
Matplotlib  
Seaborn  
NLP 
 
MACHINE  LEARNING  
Linear  Regression  
Decision Tree  
Random  Forest  
K-Means  
Sk-learn  
Navie  bayes  
 
TOOLS  
GitHub  
JIRA 
 
DEEP  LEARNING  
ANN  
CNN  
Pytorch  
Keres  
Flask  3+ years  of experience  as a Data  scientist.  Developed  end to end 
Machine  learning  and NLP models.  
Developed  and implemented  machine  learning  models  to solve  
complex  business  problems.  This involves  selecting  appropriate  
algorithms,  feature  engineering,  model  training,  evaluation,  and 
optimization.  
Responsible  for Pre-processing  and cleaning  raw data,  ensuring  its 
quality,  completeness,  and integrity.  
Handle  missing  data,  outliers,  and inconsistencies  to measure  reliable  
analysis  and modelling  results.  
Visualized  data  insights  using  Python  libraries  like Matplotlib  and 
Seaborn  for more  interactive  dashboards.  
Designed  and deploy  machine  learning  models  using  algorithms  like 
Random Forest, Responsible for Train and fine -tuning machine learning  
models  using  appropriate  algorithms  and techniques.  
Evaluated  the model  performance,  identify  areas  for improvement,  
and implemented  necessary  optimizations.  
Responsible  for Train  and fine-tune  machine  learning  models  using  
appropriated  algorithms  and techniques.  
Collaborated  with  data  engineers  to design  and optimize  data  
pipelines  for efficient  data  ingestion,  transformation,  and storage.  
Collaborated  with  cross -functional  teams,  including  business  
stakeholders,  engineers  and domain  experts,  to define  business  
objectives,  formulate  data -driven  hypothesis  and develop  solutions  
that address  specific  needs.  
Project 1: Customer support chatbot  
Description:  Introducing  GenAI -powered  chatbots,  designed  to 
revolutionize customer service! Our AI chatbots offer 24/7 availability,  
enabling businesses to respond to customer queries anytime, anywhere.  
This frees up human agents to focus on more complex issues, improving  
overall  efficiency.  

Tools and techniques  Roles  and Responsibilities:  
 
AI Development  
Natural  Language  process  
LangChain  
OpenAI  
Hugging Face Spaces  
Python  Designed  and develop  the application's  frontend  using  streamlit  
and backend langchain  
Integrated LangChain for language understanding and generation  
Implemented  OpenAI  and Hugging  Face  Spaces  for advanced  
natural language processing  
Tested  and optimized  the application  for accuracy  and 
performance.  
 
Project 2: Business Objective: Loyalty Customer Churn Prediction  
 
Description: This project aims to develop a classification model to predict customer subscription to a loyalty  
card  program  in a retail  setting.  The model  identifies  patterns  and factors  influencing  the likely  hood  of 
customers subscribing to the loyalty program. the predictive model enables retailers to target potential  
subscribers  with  tailored  marketing  strategies  and incentivize  subscription  to enhance  customer  retention  
and loyalty  
 
Tools and techniques  Roles and Responsibilities:  
 
Decision tree  
Random forest  
XG-boost  
Numpy  
pandas  Gathered  and preprocessed  pertinent  customer  data,  ensuring  
consistency  and high  quality.  
Conducted  data  cleaning,  transformation,  and feature  extraction  for 
dataset  preparation.  
Segment  data  into training  and testing  sets;  utilize  cross -validation  
methods  to evaluate  model  performance.  
Fine -tune  model  parameters  and hyperparameters  to optimize  key 
performance  metrics  like accuracy,  precision,  and recall.  
 
Project 3: Customer Emotion Detection through Review Analysis  
 
Description: This  project aims to analyze customer sentiments expressed in reviews to understand their  
emotions  and sentiments  towards  products/services.  Utilizing  Natural  Language  Processing  (NLP)  
techniques,  sentiment  analysis  models  will be built  to classify  reviews  and extract  emotional  cues,  aiding  
in enhancing  customer  satisfaction  and service  improvements  
 
Tools and techniques  
NLTK  
Natural  language  processing  
Sea born  
Matplotlib  
Lemmatization  
TF-IDF 
Random forest  Roles  and Responsibilities:  
Collected  and preprocessed  customer  review  data  from  various  
sources.  
Developed  and implemented  sentiment  analysis  models  using  NLP 
techniques  
Created  and trained  machine  learning  models  to classify  emotions  in 
customer  reviews.  
Evaluated  the model  performance  and refine  algorithms  for accurate  
emotion  detection.  
Collaborated  with  business  stakeholders  to interpret  results  and 
implement  actionable  strategies  based  on emotional  insights.  
